Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 40 in
this episode of Hansel minutia.
Scott talks with Richard Campbell about
the Apple iPhone six and
the Apple watch announcement. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes, except this one
is broadcast live here with
my friend, my favorite Canadian
Richard Campbell. How are you, sir?
I'm well, sir, how are
you? I am lovely. I
am lovely. So I just
finished watching the, the Apple
live stream of their I
everything event. Did you see
that? Yes, we were both
watching it and I realized,
cause we had planned on
doing a Hansel minutia anyway,
and then as soon as
I saw the live stream
started watching it, I thought,
you know, this is going
to be the show. Yeah,
we basically now have, what
are you going to do?
Yeah, well, and the, actually
the whole keynote was really
interesting. It was the first
time they've said the whole,
Oh, and one more things
since job's past. So it's
starting to feel like Cook's
company, you know, and I
thought it was extremely polished.
I mean, there were a
couple of parts that were
a little rough. I thought
that the watch demonstrator guy
took a lot of energy
and brought the whole thing
down, brought it way down.
Yeah. And the crazy part
is that's the new UI.
Like I was blown away
by how well they thought
about the UI. It should
have been the most interesting
part. Yeah, exactly. He just
didn't have that energy. So
that was a bit of
a downer. And then, well,
Tim cook was super cool
for most of the talk.
Then you put a really
actual cool person in front
of you. Oh, I love
it. Yeah. Two awkward dads.
It was terrifying. You cook
by himself. He's fine. Cool.
Yeah. Next to you. Dick's
to Bano. I mean, you're
just like, hi pano. I
mean, it was just, it
was extremely uncomfortable. So, well
I felt the first two
thirds was just perfect. The
last part was a little
bit like now the stream
was kind of a disaster
itself. Yeah. There was some
live streaming problems. I tried
it with VLC. I had
my iPad here as well.
So I was between the
hacked on the PC version.
I was doing the iPad
version on my phone. There
was a background, a translator
in Chinese, a Mandarin translator
for the first Half an
hour. That was for their
workers, their pressed worker. Right.
And I think they, I
realized as I turned it
on early that there were
two music tracks playing before
the thing started. So I
think they had the problem
right from the outset. Right.
They have music coming from
both tracks. So that's funny
that you mentioned that because
a number of people tweeted
about it. Yeah. Why is
there two music tracks and
then when the Mandarin started,
like that's why. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. I would argue, you
know, cause I have the
audio engineering background, the audio
engineer botched a lot of
things, you know, you know,
once you've done that work,
you only hear mistakes. He
was laid on a bunch
of mikes. He was laid
on some, on some rebalancing.
Like it just, he was
laid on, on Banos. Mike
Bonno talked for 45 seconds
with his mic off. Well,
I think in, in fact
his mic was on I'm
singing like Bano mode, right?
Deep echo and resonant version.
And then they had to
switch it into the normal
speaking voice mode. The deal
with it does make me,
but again, we don't watch
these things. No they're audio,
your live stream value. We
watch them because we want
to see one more thing.
So two interesting things happened
first was the phone, the
iPhone six, which we all
knew was coming. Yeah. But
what I think is interesting
and I want to talk
to you about is, is
the size issue. Cause I've
got, I've got an iPhone
five right there. That's my
iPhone, Mike with my, my
lovely, I'll see if I
can get that to focus.
There you go. Now I
went to ARS Technica who
I love and they made
a PDF, which I was
actually in the middle of
doing and they beat me
to it, print it out
sizes of the new iPhone
six and six plus, which
is the new windows, 95
naming style. You use the
plus pack. Okay. So here's
the five S here's the
six and here's the six
plus. Now I immediately, I
mean the five is a
really small phone compared to
virtue of a phone out
there today. Hang on. So
I was talking to people
on Twitter and I said,
Hey, it's just not that
big of a deal. You
know, it's a little bit
bigger than a, than a
five. Right. I didn't get
the five. I liked the
size of the four. Here's
an iPod touch circa three
GS style. Right. So if
you look at Phil, right,
it takes, take this guy
here and then let's put
him next to the six
plus. So this is effectively
the three GS higher things
fits in the screen size
of the six plus. So
this is the six plus
in your hand. Okay. Yep.
But I didn't think that
maybe that was enough. So
what I did as I
went and I got a
Nokia 15, 20, Okay. That's
the giant, right. Okay. This
is a great phone because
I actually, I actually was,
and I beat a man
to death. They do the
nine 20 is a better
be to death phone. It's
not as big, but it's
harder. This isn't as heavy
as the, it is actually
heavier, but yeah, extra 50
20 is huge. This is
really interesting though. Here's a
six plus right next to
a 1520. So you could
actually go and try these
different things out. Yeah. Six
plus is a little smaller
than the 1520. Okay. I
find the 15, 20 still
fits in my back pocket.
Yes. So I think Backpocket
ability is still a possibility
here. Well, and I do
appreciate the idea that they
only started making bigger I-phones
once they had the watch.
So you didn't have to
take the phone out of
your pocket anymore. So here
is 15, 20 iPhone, five
S six plus and six
all next to each other.
Nice. Effectively a three GS
in front. Yeah. So seriously,
if you can't find a
phone, that's the size that
you want out in there
in the market? You have
a problem. Yes. You do.
I want a phone this
big, do I want an
iPad mini phone? You know
what I mean? The thing
that I appreciate about the
1520 and I don't have
one, I have a nine
25. I was trying to
get the wife to get
one. Actually she has a
nine 20 and she's ready
for a new phone. Is
she struggles with battery constantly?
Cause she's not super disciplined
on, on charging batteries all
the time. And the 1520
is good for a couple
of days. I would have
hoped that those new I-phones
would be good for a
couple of days, but they
made them so thin. I
don't think the battery life's
any better. Well, you know,
so there's this TV show
that I love to watch
with Halle Berry. That's called
. Yes. Right. Okay. She's
in space and she's awesome.
It's just great. It's just,
and she's pregnant and yeah,
it's an excuse for me
to watch Halle Berry for
an hour every week. And
then there's aliens. They effectively
have iPhones on the show.
Right. But there is thin
as paper, like, like wax,
it looks like wax paper
and they're kind of see
through and they light up
and they kind of glow
and it's, it's like looking
at an iPhone in 2025.
Right. Question is when it
gets thinner, which this one
apparently has, is it still
have that, that, that sense
of, of structure because you
gotta really give phones like
this credit, they feel like
they are not going anywhere.
Yeah. They're sturdy. Yeah. I
mean, even if I take
any modern phone, I would
say, although I think the
galaxy series is a little
rough, even a 1520, it
doesn't torque. Like if you
take it like a, like
an ice tray and you
torque it, it's not going
anywhere. Yeah. It doesn't twist
indeed and older phones with
plastic backs. Definitely have that
feeling, but can they make
it thinner? But it's still,
I like a heavier phone.
You know what I mean?
I want some, I think
that we've hit this point
now where phones are getting
too light. I would think
the 15, 20 is a
little disturbingly light for its
size. Hmm. Yeah. It is.
It's funny that you mentioned
that the 15, 20 compared
to an iPhone, it's about
the same weight and that's
weird because when you're, when
you pick it up, Would
you want that phone to
be heavier? It seems not
real. Yeah, it actually does.
So I, I, I actually
have the additional cover in
order to give it some
Toss. Yeah. No gravity tip
here is the five next
to the six. Alright. It's
subtle. It's a little bit
bigger. Yeah. That's your 4.7
inch screen. Yep. Why do
you think they have such
a gentle gradient? Why not
just have it Two? Yeah.
Why not? Just all go
all plus. I think they,
you know, they needed to
make a base slightly bigger
phone. Apple. How about almost
on a, on an understandable
at times they are very
careful with the rate of
change that they do with
their things. And I want
to believe that it's all
intentional, but sometimes I think
it's what it is, what
it is. The resolutions are
higher on these new screens.
The DPI is insane. Isn't
the six plus over 400
DPI on a 10 80
P screen. So crazy how
we take this is a
16, 20, 15, 20 lumen.
This is an iPhone six
plus, right? They're both 10
ADP. Yes. These are three
and 400 or 350 and
400 PPI. This is like,
they called it retina. Plus
this is like I said
on Twitter, it's got more
pixels than I have neuron.
Yes. Yeah. Your eyes can't
see it. I can't pick
these up. That's how They're
all to, you're going to
holding it closer to your
face and it's not just
cause your focus isn't working
that well. And here's the
thing. People are talking about
how, you know, not every
game on the Xbox and
not every game on the
PS three PS four, whether
one attend NDP games on
these running 10 ADP, why
is my phone running a
10 NDP game and my
next generation console isn't Well,
and it's going to, we're
going to start limiting the
capabilities of these games because
we just can't render fast
enough. You know, GPS are
only so fast. Yeah. Well,
and certainly of course, and
even in the, in, in
the impressive demo that we
saw them doing, it's not
exactly next generation, No graphics,
no it's limited. It was
pretty impressive. But yeah, but
it was still cartoony graphics.
There were some nice shading
effects and so forth, but
they aren't pushing the resolution.
They're not moving huge numbers
of pixels. Well, yeah, like,
I don't know if you
saw that Bioshock is out
for the iPhone now. No,
that's amazing. It is amazing.
But You go around and
Google with being, I believe
Bioshock came out in 2007.
Yeah. It's not that new
man. It's like, well, wait
a second. That's not as
fancy as we thought, But
it's but it's, it's hella
impressive. Well, it speaks, it
speaks to the, you know,
Moore's law still applies, right?
Harbored densities are continuing to
grow. Yeah, Exactly. And we're
going towards a, an environment
where it's about the number
of cores on a machine.
As more than it is
gigahertz. Like everything has been
at three gigahertz for awhile.
Yeah. While the stuff that
they just announced last week,
we'll go to four for
consumers that doesn't really matter.
It's about, can I have
16 processors or know? Yeah.
Because marketing needs to sell
something, a number that people
feel superior with. Right. Well,
everyone I think, and I
actually, I was working at
Intel in the early nineties
as a consultant when they
were doing, trying to get
webcam doing what we're doing
right now, H w they
were going to get that
at like, you know, postage
stamp size. And the argument
was, if it's a must
have feature, then we're going
to need the processors for
it. Therefore people will sell
it. So there's a whole
bunch of people in Intel
whose job it is, is
to figure out how can
we use more CPU, power,
right. While doing word. Yeah.
And I think that, that
brings me to the, the
watch announcements, which is really
interesting because it is really
a companion to the phone.
I got the impression I'm
sure you did as well,
that the phone's doing a
lot of the work. When
you talk to Siri, I
did not get the impression.
And this is pure speculation
that you go, hello, Siri,
give me directions. So whatever,
certainly we know the watch
has no internet connectivity. Just
to be clear, you have
a pebble in your hand,
right? You don't have an
inside tray. Right. I have
the original I watch, Oh,
what is this? Watch here.
Recognize that. No, that's an
iPod nano with eyes Nano
inside. Huh? Yeah. Kind of
a case. That's a Kickstarter
case there. This watch, I
wore this watch for a
year. This is a lovely,
lovely wife. And that's what
that actually inspired the pebble,
which one could argue inspired
Apple. Although let's face it.
Apple took this to a
whole other level. I am,
I am very impressed with
what they packed into that
water. I totally agree. I
think the thing that was
the most impressive and I
was talking to my buddy
at the same time is
that, Hey, there's a watch.
That would have been impressive.
Yep. If they had come
out with a watch that
looked like this, it would
have been okay, I'm a
geek. I have a watch
on my wrist, but I'd
still be impressed. Yup. But
then three finishes X number
of cases, it's it basically,
didn't say here's a smartwatch.
It said we are a
smartwatch manufacturer bow before us.
Well then Yeah. And that's
always been Apple's way. Right.
You can have any kind
of iPhone you want, as
long as it's this one
right there. And then it
went, you know, okay. In
the five, they finally went
to some colors and a
couple of case variations. But
the diversity on the FA
on the watch is astonishing.
Oh, I notice it's not
an iWatch. What's up with
that. I think Because I
watch is creepy. Even the
whole NSA thing. Yeah. You
know, I don't, I don't
want you to watch, so
Apple watch is cool. So
I brought out I'm a
watch guy. Yep. And I
have a whole pile of
watches, you know, in a
box. Like I'm one of
the people who has a
wooden box with watches in
the box. And these are
not my most attractive watches,
but I thought I'd bring
them out just to give
you a sense of what,
what diversity in watch work
has. I have some automatics
upstairs. I didn't bring, didn't
bring down, but here is
the theoretical Apple watch. You
know, these are, these are
big watches, but they are
watches that are all appropriately
sized. I was also very
impressed that there is a
smaller Apple watch for the,
for the ladies or for
the slider. I know that
my buddy, Chris sells likes
a big watch. He's one
of those guys that has
a watch, like a bouncer
would use just to flag
somebody. That's a new fossil
that is quite a bit
larger in the face. Yeah.
Then this Movado over here,
the, this watch here is
a $400 watch, but has
a rubber band crap. There's
a whole new class of
watch out there that are
three, four or $500 watches
that don't look like your
classical, you know, old person
in a suit type watch,
which brings me to the
pricing three 49. What'd you
think about that? And they
said starting at yes. I
assume that's the sport. Yeah.
The aluminum chassis with the
glass face and the plastic
band, like all cheap as
possible. I think it's going
to be a six or
$700 when you get to
the elegant version. And is
that because it's going to
be five, $600 for Sapphire
crystals and Sapphire is definitely
more but gold casing on
the elegant one. That's 18
karat gold, a funny alloy,
which means they got to
make that on mass and
definitely more expensive bands. See
20 gold on a, on
a watch like that. I
think the number one thing
that I'm going to want
is a watch that is
reliable and durable. Yeah. Well,
and the whole point of
this product is to wear
it all the time. That
to me is the interesting
side of it. They never
said the word wearables once
and I get that. But
the bottom line is this
is more instrumentation for your
body and you want it
on all the time. Yeah,
exactly. So the other thing
here is that I'm a
Fitbit guy. You have a
Fitbit. I am. I use
a one. I've tried one
more knob just to see
if that makes any difference.
Fitbit one is the one
that you clip on your
pants or your belt. Yeah.
So it's in my, my
little coin pocket of my
jeans. Okay. Yeah. So I've
got a flex and I
have lost three Fitbit forces.
If you find a Fitbit
force, anywhere in New York, Chicago,
or Austin, it's mine. How
did, how did you lose
them? So the force is
double wide and clips on
like this, and it's quite
a bit heavier. It has
steel in it while this
is extremely light and rubbery
and only two little clicks
to make that thing stick
right. Falls right off. You
put your hands in your
pockets, you put your, put
your coat on. So we
would almost always fall off
like while putting my coat
on, on the subway. So
for every time you've lost
one, it's fallen off you.
What? 10, 20 times. Oh
yeah. And I, I even
had one in Austin where
it fell off me in
a, I had to run
back, pick it up at
the bathroom and then dip
the thing in Purell. But
I liked them. And I
think we all liked them
because they are the beginning
of the quantified life we
had. We had Chris dancy
on who's the most quantified
man keeping track of all
these bits of information. But
think about this. This is
an entire new industry based
on pedometers. Right? Smart pedometer.
Yeah. Elevating a pedometer, The
pedometer to the point of
like, Oh, I need to
have this. It's going to
tell me all sorts of
bits of information, which I,
as a, as a diabetic
find funny, because I have
spent 20 years plugged into
devices that give me a
biofeedback loop. Like, how am
I doing? I don't know
how I'm doing. Let me
check this device. Oh, that's
how I'm doing. Now. I
will change my behavior. Like
I have, I have spent
a day with you in
Copenhagen Basing your blood sugar.
Right. Actually you did. Yeah.
That was tough day for
you. For me, it was,
it was inspiring. It was
challenging. And, and there was
a time when I had
to go get your orange
juice right now. I remember
That is, but that's every
day for me. Right? Yeah.
So fast forward a year,
which in internet years is
like 10 years. Fitbits are
smart pedometers. And this watch
the first thing I noticed
when they were doing the
little thing, when they were
moving the watch around in
the beginning before they said
a word, I was like,
Oh, look at that. That's
a sensor on the back
Set of sensors in the
back. Yeah. Convex sensor. That
it's clear that it puts
pressure on the back of
the arms. You've got radio
pulse. I'm presuming yep. Temperature.
Maybe they didn't say I'm
guessing. Say they only say
Pulse, but there's no reason
it shouldn't be able to
measure blood pressure, but maybe
that's, you know, watch too
Unclear if it has, it
didn't have its own motion
coprocessor. And the phone does
too. So it knows what
direction you're moving, you know?
Right. Well, and they talked
about that purely in the
context of the phone they
had. And I noticed accelerometer
and barometer. Those are two
ingredients from the Fitbit so
that you can really figure
out stairs. You need the
barometer for that. And then
tying in the GPS and
so forth to figure out
how far you're actually moving.
So, you know, the whole
running in place on the
escalators, not going to work
anymore. Exactly. For this is
a smaller, less intrusive screen.
That's going to be on
my arm. Yeah. To watch
companion. But they respected the
fact that a good looking
watch is a good looking
watch. And why would I?
And so many people were
like, why would I wear
a watch? I have a,
I have a watch. Don't
you have a phone that
was literally someone tweeted to
me. You have a watch
don't you have a phone,
like young people. Yeah. That's
there. That's not, And I'm
there. Right? I haven't put
anything on my wrists in
years because I don't like
having stuff on my wrists.
I prefer that my phone
is my watch. That's how
I think. But I enjoy
the accessorizing now. Of course
I'm tee shirt and jeans
today. But yeah, the average,
the average man does not
get a lot of accessorizing.
You know, other than the,
other than the, the, the,
the Pooka shell necklace. There's
not a lot. I can
do a wedding band, you
know, you know, I can't
hoop earrings anymore. And it
can't, you know, there's only
so much, you can do
a couple bracelets, necklace, maybe
that's about it. I think
a watch cufflinks type in
those are accessories. I enjoy
accessorizing. I like literally picking
a watch to match my
shoes. If I'm dressing up.
I think of a watch
as a, an adornment. That
is something that happens to
tell the time. And I
think that a lot of
fans who, who like watches
like automatic watches, they like
the engineering is a piece
of mechanical engineering on their
wrist. Right. And, and I
know, and I have an
appreciation for those beautiful mechanics,
right? Like when I see
people who are passionate about
watches, it's not at quartz
Timex. You know, it's not
just, I need something to
tell the time it is
the elegance of all of
that. Moving hardware with Sapphire
bearings that, that you, that
you enjoy. They, one of
the great things about a
watch, like this is this,
this got a quartz battery,
and this thing runs for
ever. I mean, I've had
this watch for two years.
Most non-automatic watches will run
for, for two years. If
you have a watch winder,
or are you aware of
watch every day? You don't
even think about it, right?
Yeah. They didn't say much
about battery life on this.
Watch. Some people are speculating.
They're speculating. It's kinetic, which
would be like a digital
automatic. Well, they did show
the charging plate was a
magnetic clip in field effect,
charger. The implication was you
charge it every day. Right?
What does that mean though?
Right. I mean, if I
wake up at eight and
go to bed at midnight,
Are you, is that thing
gonna make it? Well, I
notice they also were very
emphasizing that the screen is
off until you raise it
up, which, which that's the
biggest power consumer people have
tried to do that. Yeah.
No, the pebble, I have
a pebble as well, keeps
the screen on is the
low power screen. And then
the light turns on not
on the lifting, but on
the flick. Interesting. They don't,
they don't have a sense
of it. Right. But they
know that you accelerated quickly.
So if you have a
pebble and you're in the
movie theater, you just go
like that and shake it
and it'll light up. It
really depends on how well
that works. And I think
it would, I would remind
us of the time when
we could hold the phone
up to our ear, remember
that was a big deal
during the first iPhone. Right.
Coming out like, Hey, it
dims the screen. When you,
when it's up at your
face, your ear. And there
was a time there when
it was like, what, remember
they had to adjust that,
that technology. Yes. Just those
sensors. If they can really
make it with a thing,
feels always on, like, I
don't want to see it.
You don't want to see
a power up. It's got
to be on when it
gets to you. But that's
the big, the, the net
screen is probably the number
one power consumer. Right. Cause
they clearly have eliminated all
the extra antennas that communicates
only with an iPhone. It's
probably low power Bluetooth if
I had to guess, and
that's going to save a
lot of power. I hope
so. So, you know, that
has the best chance. What
about the whole haptic bit,
the fact that your phone
vibrates politely to you And
the tactic tactic. Yes. Haptic
feedback is almost always a
small motor that vibrates. Yep.
That gives you the kinetic
energy to go and give
a little rotational inertia. And
then, you know, it reminds
you, they implied that it's
a combination of a motor
and a speaker. Like maybe
they're going to give you
the sense of a vibration
or a heads up by
sending a, a tone through
a speaker that's maybe not
audible, but enough to make
the speaker vibrate, which I
think also speaks to a
focus on power consumption. And
I agree with you there.
They also made the point
of only, you will notice
it, that it was private.
And now we get to
the creepy part of that,
which was the heart, The
intimacy, the thing, which was
weird. That was creepy. I,
and of course the wife
was next to me watching
the, the thing as well.
And I said, Oh, look,
we can both get one
of these watches and then
you could feel my heartbeat.
And she's like, yeah, that's
pretty creepy. Yeah. I think
it'll be interesting to see.
I mean, we're just two
random old married guys. Yeah.
If other people think that's
cute, it is very conceivable
that someone who's 19 in
a, in the early parts
of a relationship, I think
that that is absolutely adorable.
Yes. With their $600 phone
and their $400 watch. That's
a teenager. Yeah. That's a
good point. Funny, funny comment.
Also a bill Sims, or
just made a comment on
Twitter here. He said, Oh
look a live streaming session
that actually works. Geez. Yeah.
Yeah. Somebody had, Akamai's going
to get into trouble for
that. I I've watched Stanfield
tweeting about this whole thing.
And if anybody knows what's
going wrong with the streaming
system, it's him, he's done
everything and handled some of
the largest stream problems ever.
So he, he accused Akamai
and I'm just going to
go with that, that, and
halfway through that half hour
in, when they got rid
of the Mandarin lady, the
stream started working reliably. So
it's like, somebody woke up
like, Oh, we're on and
fixed stuff. Streaming is hard
getting it the same time.
It also speaks to the
amount of interest. I mean,
we can pick on them
for streaming, but certainly they
were being slammed, which is
yeah. Which is a, which
is nontrivial. Now of course
they had a YouTube at
the end of their presentation
and we have no one,
no, We have no, well,
we could play a little,
Carl Franklin is an outro if
you want, because I'm sure
he'd, he'd approved that we
could probably bet on the
licensing. Maybe, maybe a little
Nickelback, Apple pay. Yeah. So
Apple pay was an interesting
one to meet. There's a
drive through that. I go
through and forgive me for
eating fast food occasionally and
hanging off of that. Drive-through
as I drive through, is
this touch pay system. Yup.
That appears abandoned. Like only
in America install 200,000 and
FC touched a pay systems
and they are literally derelict.
Have you ever in America
on the West coast or
again, you're Canadian American Canadia.
Nice. Anyone you guys have
that you have like better
payment systems because we are
the only country in the
world that doesn't have chip
and pin. And at this
point, yeah. Well we're all
chip pretty much all chip
and pin down in Canada.
The only place that I
see touch pay used routinely
is certain gas stations. Instead
of the gas card, they
give you a little fog
for your key chain and
that's what you touch it
pay with. But that's pretty
much the only place I
see touch it, pay being
used on an, on any
regular basis. I have never
used touch and pay ever.
I have no cards that
can use it. I am
Meg Stripe all the way
now that said, apparently these
are all over and we're
just not using them. So
maybe he's bringing it to
life. And I appreciate that
Apple signed visa, MasterCard, American
express. Okay. So there's the
big three. That's great. And
I noticed they did emphasize
it, but notice that when
you paid with your phone,
you use that thumb sensor,
they fingerprint sensor. So there
was a sense of it
had to be you using
the phone. I appreciate it.
So you've got a pin
to unlock. You've got the
touch ID, right. Magical crypto.
And then I think it's
just important though, that the
existing NFC devices don't have
this Right. Well, and I
think these are sort of
basics. That must be there,
but then he spoiled the
whole thing at the very
end by saying, Oh look,
and you could do it
with the watch and stuck
the watch in the machine.
And it worked too. And
I'm like, where's the fingerprint
sensor on that. So that
was a little creepy. It
presumably something that you could
set and also presumes that
the, I think that the
phone is nearby. Well, obviously
the watch requires the phone.
So, but the whole point
is you don't want to
take the phone out. Is
that something you activate? Like,
it sounds like it's going
to be awkward. Yeah. Well,
and here's another thing that
is a little awkward. There
were some jokes about, you
know, well, there's Apple take
30% of everything that you
bought. What's really interesting though,
is it's unfortunate that they
don't announce a, an open
standard and say, here we
are the first implementation of
this open standard. Yeah. They
called it Apple pay. Right?
Yep. If, if, if Microsoft
came up with Microsoft pay,
they would be destroyed and
no one would think it
was okay. Did it? What
did we, Can we start
with the fact that the
stream only worked on Safari?
Well, that's obviously just an
exclusivity thing. That's not, there's
no technical reason that they
had to do that. That
was just because, Hey, it's
a club. Yes. But that
said by calling an Apple
pay, I feel it's a
little bit too exclusive, less
inclusive. Yes. But, but I
think just as touch ID
was the iPhone five S's
claim to fame. Yup. Here's
a unique feature that upscale
people who have lots of
money to toss a phone
every year to ha you
know, this is the, you
know, the Apple pay is
that feature as well. The
question is though, they're taking
the watch support all the
way down level. Yep. You
ready for this? All the
way down to the forest?
Does that mean if I
buy the, can I Apple
pay with the watch and
the forest is nearby. Right.
But the Apple pay said
only down to the fives.
Yep. So guess who's driving.
Who here Don't know now
on Twitter here, Stacy Odell
brings up a very good
point because I am nothing.
If not nondenominational, and to
make sure that everyone agrees,
You just want excuses for
toys, Make sure that no
one thinks that I am
in any way device discriminatory.
No, you want everything He
said? What about, yeah. Right.
Well, So here is the
Samsung gear and the Samsung
gear too nice, which were
followed by another 12 us
Samsung devices that were announced
within hours of each other.
These are not mine. I
didn't, I didn't buy these.
These are given to me
as a, what I call
a review gift. Right? My
buddy, Bob Somerville. And he,
he just said, Hey, let
me loan you, my Androids,
Take these out for a
spin. See what you think,
things, You can review them.
So this is the gear
and the gear too. These
watches both have the problem
of they scream. I'm a
watch on your wrist. Right.
You know what I mean?
Yeah. This is the gear
to Booton up here. And
then here is a gold
galaxy S three. So just
as these guys, Android were
basically have been, have been
argued. It's kind of a
lock in thing, you know,
it's Android and Android. I
don't know if I want
to do that, right. No
one seemed to say that
about the iPhone. Well, I
think it's presumed. It's going
to be all Apple. Yeah.
I don't think it's a
surprise to anyone that it's
all Apple, but, and it's
not that it's a, it's
not that it's all Android,
even that's all Samsung, even
worse. Right. And, and here's
the thing I'm already in.
And again, this is America
specific. So I don't mean
to be overly ethnocentric here,
but I'm locked into at
and T right. Like, you
know, when my first child
was born, they got a
piece of him. I can
never get away from them.
Gotcha. Certainly Not. If I
want a new phone, you
know, their hand don't have
that part. No, I've got
Rogers. We've got Rogers. Rogers
is the at T and
T equivalent. Oh, I fight
it. I buy it just
by assume anywhere in plug
in and elsewhere. Oh, I,
so I've taken the time
to try and get phones
that aren't locked so that
I can get local Sims
when I want. But that
is not what my carrier
wants me to do. Rogers
is just the polite version
of at T and T
because it's Canadian. Yep, exactly.
So What's w this is
by the way here, this
was booted up here and
I can get that to
focus in just a second
here, come on. Focus. Getting
a webcam to focus is
actually the next big problem
to solve. That was how
the light just went out
there. Right? Well, and, and
that little subtle poke that
Apple had about their focusing
system in their phone was
interesting. Cause it is dealing
with exactly that. Yeah. Focusing
is definitely a problem, but
Does this mean that I'm
now locked in even more
than I'm already locked in?
Like sometimes people say, Hey
Scott, why don't you have
a windows phone? Well, you
know, I have one, I
use it sometimes, but I
started early. Right? All these
companies want to get you
early. They want to get
you early and stick you
in. So it's like suddenly
I'm going to have a
fitness tracker slash watch and
Apple pay. And this, they
know an awful lot about
me. I've always liked to
mix it up. I have
an iPhone, I have a
surface, I have a PlayStation,
you know, I just like,
I feel like if I
get a little of everything,
then I don't have to
feel like I've bought into
an entire ecosystem. What about
you? Yeah. I'm with you.
I like the fact that
my Fitbit syncs with my
Android phone and with my
windows phone. And so, you
know, you feel like you've
got, you know, the one
has got, it's just in
my pocket. I don't even
want to touch it. Right.
It's just that I pull
up my phone to read
the data off of it
and keep going. That's what
I want. And in reality,
you know, we still are
dealing with lock-in. Where did
you buy your music? Cause
it isn't moving to the
other platforms. Yup. Yup. That
is always the battle with
those things. What about what
kind of lesser known phones
that aren't launching big in
the Western world? Like the
Firefox phones, you know, those
phones are very inexpensive. You
can get them for $99
or less unlocked. They're all
openness and open that they're
all, all you just use
Java, JavaScript and HTML. They
are run by Mozilla, but
yeah, they're open phones is
should, should we be complaining
so much about these walled
gardens? I think so. I
think we are generally trying
to press against wall gardens
as a whole, because they're
not, they don't necessarily serve
as well. You know, my
reaction to looking at Apple
is not that I want
to run out and buy
Apple gear. It's like, okay,
well, there's the new high
bar for the open standards
folks to reach to, you
know? And once again, Apple
has done the brilliant thing
in the sense of, if
you're going to build a
watch, it's not just a
watch, it talks to your
phone, but it's also got
all of the fitness sensors
in it. And it's got
really a distinctive, intelligent UI.
We're not just sticking with
touch, you know, that's, I
think what Apple's done well
is taking all of these
different ingredients and combining them
in a way to make
a far more refined product
in exchange for the fact
that, you know, they live
in their walled garden. They're
not going to do anything
else. But once that bar
has been set, it can
be chased by others. So
Google has nest, they have,
they have a thermostat, they
have a smoke detector, Fitbit
works great. And it links
to everything Fitbit's everywhere. It's
not like I like to
say nondenominational. Yes it does.
Does Microsoft come out with
a watch or a band
or a Fitbit or some
thing like a wearable of
some kind? And if so,
does that work everywhere? Does
that only work on Microsoft?
Yeah. I don't know that
they can add anything to
the equation here. You know,
I think Apple held back
their watch until it genuinely
added to the equation that
it was something new. So
It's the fitness aspect that
makes their watch different. I
think so. Yeah. And I
mean, and the UI that
they actually developed it, original
UI. Yeah. I found the
term digital crown to be
a little annoying about the
16th time that they said
it. I was like, I
get it. It's a knob.
You put a knob back
on the Dobbs back. Thanks
invented voice today. And I
see today they invented digital
payments today and they invented
a digital watches, which is
kind of Cool. Yep. Well
the, and the, and the
wifi to cell thing clearly
is carrier specific. There has
to be some kind of
carrier handshake to make that
work. So Talking about that
on Twitter that I look
forward to at and T
supporting a wifi calling in
2025. Nice. That's true. So
in conclusion, let's just re
review sizing. Here's our iPhone
five. Here's our iPhone six.
Yes. Thank you. ARS Technica
for these templates. Here's our
iPhone six plus now putting
these stacking them and then
bringing in the beast. There
is a 1520, so that's
a Nokia 15, 20, which
is really about, I would
say a half an inch
or a third of an
inch difference. So if you
want to see what an
iPhone six plus feels like,
I suspect it's going to
feel something like, Like the
15, 20, 15, 20, just
a S just a hair
on the edges around it's.
It's going to be really
interesting if that's the size.
Cause I don't know if
I want it up by
my face like that. Yeah.
Now that phone's finally big
enough that it looks do
sheer to have that phone
to your face, then have
a Bluetooth headset on it's
a, yeah. You know, these
are big phones, but yeah,
these are fabulous. It's going
to be really interesting to
see how they manage, how
many of these they make.
Right. They're really going to
have to decide what the
inventory is going to be
like, and who's going to
buy these Well, and it's
supposed to be on sale
in 10 days. So they've
already decided, wow, you're right.
Yeah. Yeah. They've made them
they're in boxes somewhere. What
is your go to phone
right now? My nine 25,
the Nokia, I think it's
the best of the, of
those phones so far. Well,
I would encourage people who
are thinking about these kinds
of things. When you buy
a phone, what a great
idea. Thank you. ARS Technica,
make cutouts go and try
all the different ones. Feel
them out. See if this
is, you know, does your
thumb fit into the upper
corner? Yeah. Can you reach
across, Hey man, let me
tell you if you're on
the toilet and you've got
one hand and you can't
get the upper left corner,
you pretty much, You know,
I take it upon myself
to leave my phone in
my pocket, on the toilet.
You, the only person in
America or apparently I'm it,
I'm the only guy. So
like, you know what, there's
nothing happening in that bathroom.
That is more important that
that super, it needs to
be interrupted by a phone
I need to finish. Then
we'll deal with that. Thank
you so much, Richard Campbell. I
love these things bad instead
of spontaneous, but you know,
good stuff. But you know,
this is the conversation I
would have had with you
one way or the other.
This is what's great. And
this is why Hansel minutiae,
Campbell additions of Hanselman it's
exists is that we have
these conversations anyway. Yes we
do. Why not just stream
them to the, the, the
goodly people who like them,
if you liked this, if
you found this to be
even remotely useful, Richard and
I can probably do them
regularly. This is the first
or second when we've done
on Google Hangouts. I'm not
sure if there's any value
in doing them in video.
So if you're listening on
audio, there's a video version.
And if you enjoy the
video version, let us know,
and maybe we'll do more.
We're going to explore. This
has been another episode. We'll
see you again next week.